In this lecture we will learn about properties that CSL gives us to modify table alignment and layout.
We will build off of some of the basic table code that we wrote in The Last Lecture the text align property
allows us to specify if the text in our table should be aligned to the left right or center.
The text in our table is aligned to the left by default.
If you want to align the text to the left you can also assign a value of left to the text align property.
Let's say the text align property to our styles.
Assign it a value of left and then go to the web browser and run our code.
You will notice that the text is left aligned in the cells in our table.
Let's go back to the editor
assigning this property a value of center will allow us to send the text in the cells in our table.
Let's change the value of the text align property to center and then run our code in the web browser.
The text is now aligned in the center of the cells in our table.
Let's go back to the editor
if we give the text align property a value of right our text will be right aligned in the cells of our
table.
We will change the value of the text align property to right and then run our code
as you can see the text is now right aligned in the cells of our table.
Let's go back to the editor
the text aligned property allows us to align text inside of cells horizontally to align the text vertically
in the cells.
We can use the vertical align property first.
Let's specify a height for the cells in our table so that we can clearly see the effect of this property
in action.
We will give the cells in our table a height of 40 pixels the vertical align property allows us to specify
how text is aligned vertically inside of the cells in our table by default text is vertically aligned
to the middle of a cell.
When we run our code in the web browser you will notice that the text is centered vertically within
the cells of our table.
Let's go back to the editor of value of top will place the text vertically at the top of the cells.
We will add the vertical align property to our style code and give it a value of top.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see the text is now vertically aligned at the top of the cells in our table.
Let's jump back to the editor
assigning the vertical align property of value of bottom will place the text at the bottom of the cells.
We will change the value of the vertical align property to bottom and then go to the web browser and
run our code.
You will notice that the text is vertically aligned to the bottom of our table.
Let's go back to the editor the table layout property allows us to specify the algorithm used for the
table layout CSSA gives us two values we can assign to this property auto and fixed to see the difference
in effect between these two table layout algorithms.
We will go to our column one heading and add some text to make it longer assigning the table layout
property value of auto we'll tell the browser to use an automatic table layout algorithm.
This is the default and the width of the table cells are adjusted based on the size of the content inside
of them.
We will add the table layout property to our table and give it a value of auto.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
then we will go back to the editor
if we give the table layout property of value or fixed the width of the cell is not dependent on their
content.
Each cell in the table is the same size and the size of the cells is based on the size of the table
and its columns.
Let's give our table layout property of value of fixed and then run our code in the browser
a table with a table layout value of order.
It takes longer to display than a table with a table layout value affects.
The algorithm used with the auto layout reads through all of the contents of the table before actually
displaying the table on the webpage.
So it can be slow depending on the size of the table.
The algorithm used with the fixed layout is faster as it starts displaying the table after it reads
through the first row.
Since the width of the columns is independent of the column content it knows which for each column without
having to read through the whole table in the next lecture.
We will learn about some cool effects that we can add to our tables using CSSA.